My name is Brian Holt and welcome
to the Complete Intro To Databases.
Greetings from very snowy Minneapolis.
I don't know why I keep
coming to the city,
every time I come it
just wants me to leave.
[LAUGH] Yeah, and
I pumped to be back on Frontend Masters
talking about databases this time.
I've talked about Linux,
I've talked about the command line.
I've talked about containers, react,
algorithms, intro to web Dev, Boot camp,
I'm really taking a trip through
Memory Lane comparative frameworks.
That was the first one using years ago.
Today we're gonna be talking about one of
my favorite topics, which is databases.
So yeah, let's just go ahead and
get started.
The first thing I want you to see here, is
I have this nice little course website if
you've taken one of my previous courses,
the format should look
relatively familiar to you.
You'll see here that we have some very
lovely artwork from Alice Pearson.
She does all the work for
all my courses and
this is probably my favourite
one she's done so far.
So let's go ahead and
get into some introductions.
So I've been working in the field for
over a decade at this point, and
I've used a variety of databases
across my various different jobs.
And so I'm excited to share with you some
of my hard won battle knowledge that I've
gotten from crashing databases,
dropping tables when I shouldn't have.
Literally my first week at my first job,
I dropped an entire MySQL database
that I was definitely not supposed to.
So I'm gonna teach you how to not do that.
And I just I think databases are fun.
Maybe it's just being a glutton for
punishment, but
I do enjoy actually
interacting with databases.
That's what I do on my free time.
It's actually not true,
I don't do this in my free time but
I do enjoy this part of my job.
Cool.
So who is this course for?
This course is for
I'm hoping everyone, right?
Everyone, I think can gather
some knowledge from this.
Just kind of understanding the various
kinds of databases that are available to
when you would choose one,
how to choose one,
what kind of tradeoffs you're making
by choosing one versus the other?
This course is most useful if you have at
least a little bit of familiarity with
the command line.
Luckily Frontend Masters has a fantastic
course on Linux on the command line.
Also, it's the one that I taught.
So I think it's good.
But anyway, so if you don't have familiar
with the command line, I recommend you
take Take that course first, and
then this one will be a lot easier.
Cuz you won't have to be learning a bunch
of command lines at the same time.
I'll also be using
containers in this course.
There's also another [LAUGH] course from
Frontend Masters that I think's pretty
good on containers,
I also taught that one.
You don't have to take down unnecessarily.
This course is not centered on containers.
You will be running some Docker commands.
But you don't need to understand what
the Docker commands actually do.
And then a little bit of
programming knowledge.
All the samples will be in Node.js,
that's what I know.
If you're on Frontend Masters,
decent chance you have a little
bit of familiar with JavaScript.
But even if you don't, it's fine.
If you know Ruby, if you know Python,
if you know Go, these code samples
are going to be simple enough that you
should be able to pick them up just fine.
Great, yeah.
Beyond that, this course should be helpful
to anyone that's either coming from
the front end or
coming from the back end and
just wants to learn a little bit more
how and where to stick store data.
All right, who am I?
So I'm Brian.
I work at Microsoft as a principal
Program Manager on Visual Studio code and
the developer experience for
JavaScript users on Azure.
Primarily I work on the Azure stuff.
I've been a developer for a decade.
Kind of the thing that's
kind of full circle for
me this entire thing is my father
actually worked on a database at IBM.
So my dad worked on and DB2,
which is the IBM SQL database.
So yeah, that was pretty cool.
I've used databases over my entire career,
I've worked at Reddit, Netflix, LinkedIn,
Microsoft, and some other smaller
companies here and there.
And I've used a variety of different
databases across all these
different companies.
My first job my very,
very first programming job,
which was a little shop in Provo, Utah.
I wrote primarily SQL that was like 95%
of my job was writing really long SQL.
So this is something that
I've done a lot of actually.
And then nothing else.
I was a very early MongoDB user.
My very first event that I ever went to
for like programming was Mongo days SF.
Which that's got to be 2011 probably.
What did I put in here?
I think I looked it up.
I don't remember.
It was a long time ago, and
it was back before people
thought MongoDB was a good idea.
So, that should tell you
how long ago it was.
Now, I've now probably
been to like 150 events,
it's just funny that was the first one.
When I'm not at Microsoft or
on Frontend Masters, I try and
get away from my keyboard.
You can come exercise with me on Peloton I
do a lot of Peloton actually did it this
morning.
So I put my link on to
my profile on there.
I like Aila scotches, local beers,
medium roast coffees,
traveling around the world and
this little, hazard.
[LAUGH] That's my dog,
her name's Luna, yeah.
And then getting my ass kicked at Dota and
Overwatch.
As most of the staff at
Frontend Masters can attest.
I'm pretty bad at both of those.
Cool.
And lastly,
I just always put these in my courses,
My favorite charities that I like
contributing to are AnnieCannons,
The Last Mile, VetsWhoCode,
Legal Counsel for Youth and Children.
And as always, I always have
to thank Frontend Masters for
giving me a platform and the opportunity
to speak to all of you today.
So thanks, Frontend Masters.
You guys are the best.
And I always dropped my social links
in there, Twitter, LinkedIn and GitHub.
Feel free to come chat with me.
I will tell you that I'm terrible
at responding to private messages,
especially LinkedIn because I get so
many I literally cannot read all of them.
But, yeah, feel free to catch
up with me on the socials.
All right, that's enough about me.
Let's stop talking about me,
let's start talking about databases.